We want to publish our local Power BI desktop file to Power BI Service now.
So at the moment, we have the following situation.
We have our Power BI desktop file,
this file includes the dataset that we created and the report with the visualizations and at the moment,
this file is located on your computer or on my computer.
So what can we do right now?
Well we saw that get data option in the Power BI service interface
and if we take a look at that, we can see that we connect to the file using that get data option and
that we can publish the file,
so we have two options basically.
The difference is that the publishing option, this is just a button that is called like that in Power BI
desktop and that we can connect a file from Power BI service to Power BI desktop using that get data
function. In the end,
both options will result in the following,
we will have the data imported from Power BI Desktop into Power BI service.
Now some theory here,
let's see how this works
and before we go back to Power BI service,
let's open our Power BI desktop project one last time by the way to see how this publish function works.
So here we are back in a project file in the report view
and if you look at the home ribbon, then and then go to the right, to that share option,
we have an option named publish.
What if we just press that option?
Publishing to Power BI,
this sounds good, right?
Let's wait a few seconds until it's finished and then go back to our Power BI service application.
Now it's done and we got it,
so we understood that and now let's go back to our Power BI service application.
Here I am back in Power BI service and I don't have any dashboards,
this is true but if you now look into that left column right here again, you can see that it changed in
the reports area and in the datasets area,
so we now seem to have imported our data into Power BI service. Now if we click onto the dataset for
instance,
you can see that we have our data in Power BI service. Now we will talk about that in more detail in
the next video,
right now I want to show you how to delete that dataset immediately and how to import the data now
vice-versa because now we publish the data from Power BI Desktop to Power BI service
and now we want to see how we can use that get data function that we saw before.
So we want to use Power BI service to import the data from Power BI desktop,
the result is the same of course.
Those are just two ways on how you can do this.
So let's first see how we can delete that dataset.
So the first thing we could do is, we could click onto that report and then you can see that you have
those dots right here, open menu.
If you click that, you can then either open the report of course, rename it or you can remove it. If you
do that, then you get a quick warning,
yes you want to read it and now you can see that we don't have any reports in here.
The dataset is still here,
so we can also click onto that dots right here and now press remove, like this,
yes we want to remove that. Now we have an empty workspace again,
now let's try this get data function, so we clicked get data right here
and now we have different options on where to retrieve the data from.
In our case and at the moment, we want to import the data from a local source. So we can go to files right
here,
click onto get, select a local file right here
and here I am in the folder where I located the finished Power BI Desktop file.
If I click that and press open now right here, then it will import the information that we have in our local
file,
this takes a few seconds.
Now it is done
and if you look into that left column, we can see that everything looks the same as it did before in
Power BI Desktop.
OK,
there is one little difference.
If you click onto dashboard right now, which is already selected,
we already have a dashboard right here
but in this dashboard, there is no content at the moment
and we could have created that dashboard quickly
also when we use the publish function of Power BI desktop before and we will learn how this works.
But basically, we now saw two ways on how to get the data from Power BI Desktop into the Power BI service.
Now we still have those four options right here, dashboards, reports, workbook and datasets.
As I said, workbooks relates to Excel files,
so we will not talk about that right now but datasets, reports and dashboards,
I think we should take a look at each of those things in more detail.
Let's do this in the next video.